\ 
up to myknowledge 
\ 

Tomcat--->
piece of software written in Java run in server analysis the request from html.
tomcat is responsible for run dynamic webapplication.
it will process the http request and picks up respective servlet and first init method create 
two object request and responce store the value that from html page.Servlets run in a servlet container(catalina).
Tomcat provides a "pure Java" HTTP web server environment in which Java code can run.
Tomcat is one of several open source collaborations that are collectively known as Jakarta.
Tomcat is a very popular web server/servlet container that can host Java web applications which are made up of servlets.

Catalina---->
catalina is container in tomcat to run a servlet.catelina - Servlet Container
Jasper - JSP Container.Catlina is a container that is used to execute sevlet program .Catalina implements
specifications for servlet and JavaServer Pages (JSP).


Servlet--->servlet is nothingbut,
extended version of normal java class.Basically servlets are usually used to implement web applications.
The javax.servlet packages provide interfaces and classes for writing servlets
The HttpServlet class provides methods, such as doGet and doPost, for handling HTTP-specific services(html requst or respond to html.
Servlets run in a servlet container(catalina) (e.g. parsing an HTTP request). 
One of the best-known open source servlet containers is Tomcat.You need to use Servlet API to create to link servlets and tomcat


ways of creating servlet---->
we can create servlet in three ways 1.interface servelet,2.extending HttpServlet 3.extending  genric servlet.
genric servlet has no do get nd do post it has only service method it change based on action.
if we dont give any type of sevlet automatically eclipse will implements interface servlet.

servlet life cycle--->
when request come to server tomcat will load respective sevlet in catalina or tamcat container then the first step init  method 
in servlet will executed.then init method will create request and responce object. then the  futher process control
passed to service method .then it will analise which method will be executed based on action attribute.
then whole process had done finally destroy method will be called its is the final proces of servlet there sevlet life ends.
for subsequent request init method will get skipped request willgo to directly sevice and process further.

interservlet communication--->
when one servlet call another sevlet then its called 
interservlet communication.to do this we use RequestDispatcher concept.here one servelet can forword the request to another sevlet
to process the client request.

xml---->
The extensible markup language is simple text based format for representing structured information like documents,data,configuration
books transaction invoices and much more.use it in webservices
it is know as universal language for data on the web because xml documents can be created and used in any language.
i use xml to download maven dependencies.


doGet()---->
doGet method is method of HttpServlet class.doget should we use when retriving the data from database
even we havent mention the method name doget method automatically called .
all the data is exposed in url.all the form data is saved in 
browser history.


doPost()----> we have to call explicitily from action attribute to access the dopost.
it should be use submitting the data from the form.form data will not exposed in url.
do post method would not store the data in browser history.
 Examples are sending data after filling up a form or sending login id and password

HttpServeletRequest--->
HttpServletRequest is an interface and extends the ServletRequest interface. 
By extending the ServletRequest this interface is able to allow request information for HTTP Servlets.
 Object of the HttpServletRequest is created by the Servlet container and, then, it is passed to the service method (doGet(), doPost()


HttpServeletResponse--->
Extends the ServletResponse interface to provide HTTP-specific functionality in sending a response.
 For example, it has methods to access HTTP headers and cookies.The servlet container creates an
 HttpServletResponse object and passes it as an argument to the servlet's service methods ( doGet , doPost


request.setAttribute--->
by using request.setAttribute can set the value of an attribute  can remember only previous data
 it cant remember previous to previous page  attribute is passed as parameters


request.getAttribute--->
it is used to fetch the data that set by request.setAttribute method.

sessionManagement--->
Session Tracking(management) is a way to maintain state (data) acros the application.it makes http servlet stateless to stafull.
it helps us to use the data across the application.
we can Manage session  in three ways 1.hidden field 2.cookies 3.Httpsession
hidden in this method data would pass all the way throuh the module.
cookies it create one file and store in one common place we fetch and use all over page but one cookie it only store one data in object .
httpsession is convinient way to do session management.it is special kind of cookie it can store multiple data .its temprory.

Httpsession--->
public interface HttpSession
httpsession helps us to use the data all overbrowser.it make http protoco stateless to statefull.its special kind of cookie it can
store multiple data in it the cookie created with  httpsession is temprory.we can use the data all over browser.

request.getSession()--->
getSession() returns  session object associated with the request,
to create  session cookie to store the data in it.using that object we call the cookie again and retrive the data.if we make 
request.getSession(false) it will not create new session cookie
retrieves the current session, and if one doesn't exist yet, returns null.
functionally both are same but  functionally the same: 
retrieve the current session, and if one doesn't exist yet, create it.


session.setAttribute()--->
used to set the value in session .then we can retrive the data using setAttribute.


RequestDispatcher()--->
The RequestDispatcher interface provides the facility of dispatching the request to another resource it may be html, servlet or jsp.
This interface can also be used to include the content of another resource also.
It is one of the way of servlet collaboration.it has  methods to
helps to forward or stick  any page we need to load.

request.getRequestDispatcher()--->
it holds the path of the resourse which one need to load.and return the RequestDispatcher object.by using that
object we can do forward or inlude process.


reqdis.forword(req,res)---->
 Forwards a request from a servlet to another resource (servlet, JSP file, or HTML file) 
on the server. This method allows one servlet to do preliminary processing of a request and another 
resource to generate the response


reqdis.include(req,res)---->
include a request to stick in same page (servlet, JSP file, or HTML file) 
on the server. This method allows one servlet to do preliminary processing  generate the response at same page.


Jsp--->(java server page)
embeding java code inside html called jsp.It is used for creating web application.
It is used to create dynamic web content.JSP is first converted into servlet by JSP
container before processing the client’s request.They are easy to maintain.
No recompilation for same request.JSP has access to entire API of JAVA .JSP are extended version of Servlet
Reduction in the length of Code
1.scriplet tag< %    %>
object are readly presend in jsp we dont need to create.
implicit object in jsp are out response request session etc we cant create method here
2.Declaration Tag <%! %> :-It is used to declare variables .we cant use implic object here.but we can create method
3.expression tag<%= %> convert expression to string we cant use ; we can call method
4.directive tag<%@  %> we can  do import operation using thid tag. 

jstl--->jsp standard tag library
The JSP Standard Tag Library (JSTL) represents a set of tags to simplify the JSP development
tags that can be used for implementing some common operations such as looping, conditional formatting.
allow using predefined tag instead of writting javacode
JSP is Java Ser Page.
JSTL is JSP standard tag libary to create custom tag.
So JSTL is used to create the JSP files.
<c:forEach items="${items}" var="item">

Mvc--->Model view controller
this design pattern separates an application into three main logical components.
 (MVC) design pattern specifies that an application consist
of a data model, presentation information, and control information. improved scalability,
 they are easy to maintain. A model can be reused by multiple views which provides reusability of code.
 all css html code writen is view layer .controller it is behave as mediator between view and model it is take input 
 from view gives to model and then its take output of model and gives back to view.model all the logics are the db base code
 implementation all done in model layer.


Hibernate--->
its a jpa framework 


hibernate is the object relation mapping tool.it helps to perform db operation easily it has readily available code to working with DB.we dont need to
write so many line of code.it take the content in object and map it to the table with 
help of jpa  and also can take the table content.
map back to the object. advantages of hibernate
hibernate create less dependecy transisation of one db to another db quite easily.and also reduce the number of
code written based on db it create db.we dont need to create queries.
simplifies the development of Java application to interact with the database. It is an open source, lightweight,
ORM (Object Relational Mapping) tool.Hibernate implements the specifications of JPA (Java Persistence API) for data persistence. 
Java Persistence API (JPA) is a Java specification that provides certain functionality and standard to ORM tools.
The javax.persistence package contains the JPA classes and interfaces.
1)open sourse and light weight
2)fastperfomence
3) Database Independent Query
//jpa is an interface hypernate implement that//

orm--->
is the technique the process of persisting the java object to db table.table  and class name should be same to persist.
jPA---->
it doestnt perform any implementation.its a bridge between db and our application.its just specification.
//it has methods hybernate implement the jpa

jpa vs crud repository--->crud repository was intially intruduced later on latest version of spring boot comes with 
jpa repository  jpa repository has a mehtod findall it all the content of the table and return as entity classs object
it feature of jpa and not in crud repository.


spring--->
it is opensourse framework to develop java enterprice application. to create high performing,
 easily testable, and reusable code.To run the Spring application, we need to set the server explicitly///     Model View ViewModel (MVVM) Pattern,,mvp
To create a Spring application, the developers write lots of code.It reduces the lines of code.


spring boot---->//its framework readlily available project structure follow mvc architecture.configuration easy//apache wicket and grails
it is opensourse framework to develop java enterprice application. to create high performing, 
easily testable, and reusable code.dependency downloading is made easier.it gives ready project structure.
Spring Boot is built on top of the conventional spring framework. So, it provides all the features of spring 
and is yet easier to use than spring. Spring Boot is a microservice-based framework and making a production-ready 
application in very less time. In Spring Boot everything is auto-configured. We just need to use proper
configuration for utilizing a particular functionality. Spring Boot is very useful if we want to develop REST API.

why spring boot--->rest api introduces in spring boot.
spring boot gives ready project structure .more secure comes with initial dependecies
implementing rest services is easier object are thread safe.
Spring Boot Architecture--->
    Presentation Layer--authentication and json translation
    Business Layer--perform buisnees logic, authorisation
    Persistence Layer--storage logic
    Database Layer--actuall database


dependecy injection--->core of spring
we can cut the dependency between two classed.for instance two class depends each other if i make any changes
in class one class i have modify other class so by using dependency injection we avoid this problem.
finding bug is deficult as it depends other classes.if we programe with dependecy injection we can test
the each and every class seperately.


Spring Boot Starters --->
It provides additional information and statistics on project generation
Spring Boot Starters are a set of convenient dependency descriptors that you can include in your application.
Spring Boot provides a number of starters that allow us to add jars in the classpath. Spring Boot built-in starters
 make development easier and rapid. Spring Boot Starters are the dependency descriptors.

entity--->
in entity layer setters and getters mathod were used .to read and write a data we cant access directly only using
setter and method we can access the data.entity members  should be same as db name to map by jpa repository.if doesnt 
match it will throw an error.An entity is a collection of fields and associated database operations. Entity classes 
have a stereotype of entity. ... An entity class is essentially an object wrapper for a database table

repository--->to perform database operation in Spring boot
all data base details given here all database opereation also perform here only.by extending jpa repository we can use 
those method in repository layer.it will map entity object into db table.all databse 
Repositories are classes or components that encapsulate the logic required to access data sources.
They centralize common data access functionality, providing better maintainability


controller--->
A controller basically controls the flow of the data. It controls the data flow into model and
updates the view whenever data changes.its a mediator between the view and model
 it is take input from view gives to model and then its take output of model and gives back to view
.it will controll the sevice layer


service--->adding additional feature for the spring application service layer
Service is used to annotated classes which hold business logic in the Service layer.in sevice layer we can develop the interating
programe here for instance for email epi we develop code here to improve the maintability.


application property--->
 In Spring Boot, properties are kept in the application.properties file under the classpath.
The application.properties file is located in the src/main/resources directory. 
here  we done all configuration for the springboot application.we can define our  custom configuration properties
like we can change the port to run a server.This appendix provides a list of common Spring Boot
properties and references to the underlying classes that consume them.
here all the database details i would be giving it here.what ever we given in the place it
should be keyvalue pair.Properties files are used to keep ‘N’ number of properties in a single file to run the
 application in a different environment.The code for sample application.properties file is given below −
server.port = 9090
spring.application.name = demoservice
Spring Boot also allows us to define our own property in application property if required

pom.xml--->
it instruct your maven to download the required dependecies(jars) it has instruction to download the jars .
we write instruction in xml tag.POM is an acronym for Project Object Model. The pom.xml file contains 
information of project and configuration information for the maven to build the project such as dependencies,
build directory, source directory, test source directory, plugin, goals etc.
Maven reads the pom.xml file, then executes the goal.
Before maven 2, it was named as project.xml file. But, since maven 2 (also in maven 3), it is renamed as pom.xml

webservice---->they would tie up with lot of company/assume/they put it in the details in their portal they sell ticket from their app and it will
reflect in official ticket portla/there are two different application develped in other technology  by that they can use service of other application/

integrating hetrogenious or homogenious application is called as websevices. we can exchange data between two applicaions
make use of that consuming or exposing data will be done.for example ticket booking app,
the official train ticket app would integrate with other third party applicationm ..official application will expose data
in xml form or jason object form to thirdparty application nd it will consume that data.then it will get reflected in official app db.
webservices implemented in two ways 1.soap and 2.rest
soap---> here we exchange the data by xml imlimenting is complex .because parshing the xml file required lot of coding
xml file is plotform independ.(any programming understand xml file)
rest---> it easy to implement webservices by rest bcoz here we can exchange data b/w application using jason object however
rest also support parshing xml file .consuming and exposing jason object is easier.




microservice---->
here we break bigger application into smaller module and then we established communication with webservices.
we can improve the perfomence by running the modulus in different severs.even one sever goes down we can able to
access other module.using webservice concept.

autowired 
it performing dependency injection it will wire available object in spring container to annotated interface or class.for example if we want to create object for 
repository in service we use autowired annotation.

requesmappring
it is method level annotation to 
binds form url with controller methods.web request will be redirected to the method.when request comes to the spring  it iterates over each Controller method 
then matching method will assigned to the perticular web request.The request goes to the controller, and the controller maps that request and handles it. After that, it calls the service logic if required.

reques param
it read data from frm field/url  and intialises controller method attribute.we use request param when entity variable not matching and when data are less number.

modelattribute 
it map form data to entity class object.we use model attribute when the all the variable is matched with dp column

modelmap 
it is a class that helps to exchang data between controller layer and view layer

controller 
it helps us defines controller layer in the project which view and services ayer

service
its a sterio type that defines sevices layer

restcontroller 
theis define that the cass performs webservices activity

component
its a steriotype


getmapping 
helps to read data from data from db using webservices

postmapping 
helos to save data to the db using webservices

putmaping 
helos to update data i db using webservices

deletemapping
helps to delete record in db using webservices

pathvariable
reads data from ur;

reustbody
helps to map java object to jasn object





 jpa annotation
entity
it maps java class to db table 

id
it maps entity class field with primary column of databse table


column
when entity class field name and database column name are different then it helps to map this


table
when entity classname and db table names are different then it helps to map this

geratedvalue
it helps us to autoincrement the values in db

qualifies 
its resolves problems of which bean address needs to be injected int the reference variable of repository during runtime


spring initialiser
its gives us spring boot project struure in eclipe





ctl shift o
alt shift r



Open sidebar
Hibernate ORM Basics


User
Hibernate state

ChatGPT
In software development, Hibernate is an object-relational mapping (ORM) framework for the Java programming language. It provides a way to map Java objects to database tables and perform database operations using object-oriented paradigms.

Hibernate manages the state of objects in a persistent application by providing mechanisms for object-relational mapping, caching, and transaction management. The state of an object in Hibernate can be categorized into three main states:

Transient State: When an object is created using the new keyword, it is in the transient state. In this state, the object is not associated with any Hibernate session, and no database operations are performed. Changes made to the object in this state are not reflected in the database.

Persistent State: Once an object is associated with a Hibernate session and saved or loaded from the database, it enters the persistent state. In this state, any changes made to the object are tracked by Hibernate, and they are synchronized with the database when the session is flushed or a transaction is committed. Hibernate keeps track of persistent objects and manages their interactions with the database.

Detached State: If an object was previously associated with a Hibernate session but the session is closed or the object is explicitly detached, it enters the detached state. In this state, the object is no longer associated with a session or actively managed by Hibernate. However, any changes made to the detached object can be reattached to a new session, and Hibernate will synchronize those changes with the database when the object is reattached and the session is flushed or committed.

Hibernate provides methods to transition objects between these states and manage their lifecycle in a persistent application. By using Hibernate, developers can focus on working with objects and let the framework handle the underlying database operations and state management.





User
4 states

ChatGPT
Apologies for the confusion in my previous response. In the context of Hibernate, there are typically four states that an object can be in:

Transient State: In the transient state, an object is not associated with any Hibernate session. It is a newly created or instantiated object that is not yet persisted in the database. Any modifications made to the object in this state will not be reflected in the database unless the object is made persistent by associating it with a session.

Persistent State: When an object is associated with a Hibernate session and saved or loaded from the database, it enters the persistent state. In this state, Hibernate keeps track of the object and manages its synchronization with the database. Any changes made to the object will be automatically persisted to the database when the session is flushed or a transaction is committed.

Detached State: If an object was previously associated with a Hibernate session but the session is closed or the object is explicitly detached, it enters the detached state. In this state, the object is no longer actively managed by Hibernate. However, any modifications made to the detached object can be reattached to a new session, and Hibernate will synchronize those changes with the database when the object is reassociated with a session and the session is flushed or committed.

Removed State: When an object is associated with a Hibernate session and it is deleted from the database using Hibernate's delete operation, it enters the removed state. In this state, the object is scheduled for deletion from the database. The deletion will be applied to the database when the session is flushed or a transaction is committed.

These states represent the lifecycle of objects in a Hibernate-managed persistent application, and Hibernate provides mechanisms to transition objects between these states and manage their interactions with the database.





User
How its used

ChatGPT
Hibernate is widely used in Java applications for object-relational mapping (ORM) and managing database interactions. Here's how Hibernate is typically used in a Java application:

Configuration: The first step is to configure Hibernate in your application. This involves providing the necessary configuration details, such as database connection information, in a configuration file (typically named hibernate.cfg.xml).

Mapping Entities: In Hibernate, you define entity classes that represent your domain objects. These entity classes are mapped to database tables using annotations or XML mapping files. The mappings specify how the fields and relationships in your Java classes correspond to the columns and tables in the database.

SessionFactory: Hibernate uses a SessionFactory to create sessions, which are used for database operations. The SessionFactory is responsible for initializing Hibernate based on the configuration and mapping information.

Session: A Session represents a single unit of work with the database. It provides methods for CRUD operations (create, retrieve, update, delete) on the mapped entities. You can obtain a Session from the SessionFactory using the openSession() method.

Transactions: Hibernate manages database operations within transactions to ensure data consistency. You can begin a transaction using the beginTransaction() method on the Session object. Once the transaction is complete, you can either commit the changes using commit() or roll back the transaction using rollback().

Querying and Persistence: Hibernate provides a powerful querying mechanism called Hibernate Query Language (HQL), which is similar to SQL but operates on the entity objects instead of database tables. You can use HQL to perform complex queries on your entities. Hibernate also provides methods for persisting, updating, and deleting entities.

Caching: Hibernate includes caching mechanisms to improve performance. It can cache entity objects, query results, and even second-level caches for more extensive caching across sessions.

Integration with Frameworks: Hibernate can be integrated with various Java frameworks like Spring, Java EE, and others to simplify the development process and leverage their additional features and capabilities.

By using Hibernate, developers can work with objects and their relationships rather than dealing directly with SQL queries and database operations. Hibernate abstracts away the low-level database interactions, simplifying the development process and improving productivity.





User
What is four state of hibernate explain briefly 

ChatGPT
Sure! The four states in Hibernate are as follows:

Transient State: In this state, an object is not associated with any Hibernate session. It is a newly created or instantiated object that has not been persisted in the database. Changes made to the object in this state are not reflected in the database unless the object is made persistent by associating it with a session.

Persistent State: When an object is associated with a Hibernate session and saved or loaded from the database, it enters the persistent state. In this state, Hibernate manages the object's persistence and tracks any changes made to the object. Any modifications to the object will be automatically persisted to the database when the session is flushed or a transaction is committed.

Detached State: If an object was previously associated with a Hibernate session but the session is closed or the object is explicitly detached, it enters the detached state. In this state, the object is no longer actively managed by Hibernate. However, the detached object still retains its data and modifications. It can be reattached to a new session, and Hibernate will synchronize the changes with the database when the object is reassociated with a session and the session is flushed or committed.

Removed State: When an object is associated with a Hibernate session and marked for deletion using Hibernate's delete operation, it enters the removed state. In this state, the object is scheduled for deletion from the database. The deletion will be applied to the database when the session is flushed or a transaction is committed.

These states represent the lifecycle of objects in a Hibernate-managed application. Hibernate provides methods and mechanisms to transition objects between these states, enabling developers to manipulate and persist objects in a convenient and consistent manner.

User
Can you explain with example?

ChatGPT
Certainly! Let's consider an example of a simple application that manages user data using Hibernate.

Transient State:
java
Copy code
// Create a new user object in the transient state
User user = new User();
user.setName("John Doe");
user.setEmail("john.doe@example.com");
In this example, we create a new User object and set its properties. The user object is in the transient state because it is not associated with a Hibernate session. Any changes made to the object at this point will not be persisted in the database.

Persistent State:
java
Copy code
// Open a Hibernate session and save the user object
Session session = sessionFactory.openSession();
session.beginTransaction();

// Save the user object, making it persistent
session.save(user);

// Commit the transaction
session.getTransaction().commit();
session.close();
In this code snippet, we open a Hibernate session, begin a transaction, and save the user object. By calling session.save(user), Hibernate makes the object persistent. The changes made to the user object are tracked by Hibernate, and the object is synchronized with the database when the transaction is committed. After that, we close the session.

Detached State:
java
Copy code
// Detach the user object from the previous session
session = sessionFactory.openSession();
session.beginTransaction();

session.evict(user); // Detach the object from the session

session.getTransaction().commit();
session.close();
Here, we open a new session, begin a transaction, and detach the user object from the previous session using session.evict(user). The user object is now in the detached state. It is no longer actively managed by Hibernate, but it retains its data and modifications.

Removed State:
// Delete the user object from the database
session = sessionFactory.openSession();
session.beginTransaction();

session.delete(user); // Mark the object for deletion

session.getTransaction().commit();
session.close();
In this code snippet, we open a new session, begin a transaction, and mark the user object for deletion using session.delete(user). The user object enters the removed state, and when the transaction is committed, it will be deleted from the database.

These examples demonstrate the lifecycle of a User object in Hibernate, transitioning from the transient state to the persistent state, and then to the detached state or the removed state, depending on the operation performed. Hibernate manages these states and provides methods and mechanisms to work with objects and persist their data in a database.

Why we need detached state

The detached state in Hibernate serves an important purpose in application development. Here are a few reasons why the detached state is useful:

Data Manipulation: The detached state allows you to work with objects outside the context of an active Hibernate session. It enables you to manipulate and modify objects in a detached manner, without the need to keep a Hibernate session open throughout the entire duration of data manipulation. This can be beneficial for performance reasons, as you can minimize the time spent holding a session open and avoid potential resource constraints.

Object Persistence: The detached state allows you to persist changes made to objects even after the associated Hibernate session is closed. When a detached object is reattached to a new session, Hibernate can detect the modifications made to the object while it was in the detached state and synchronize those changes with the database when the session is flushed or committed. This provides flexibility in managing the persistence of objects in scenarios where objects need to be modified outside the scope of an active session.

Data Transfer and Serialization: The detached state is useful when transferring objects between different layers of an application or when serializing objects for caching or remote communication. You can detach an object from one session, serialize it, transfer it over the network, and then reattach it to a new session on the receiving end. This allows you to work with objects in a disconnected manner, facilitating distributed architectures or caching strategies.

Optimistic Locking: Detached objects can be utilized in optimistic locking scenarios. Hibernate's optimistic locking mechanism ensures that concurrent modifications to the same data are detected and handled appropriately. By detaching an object after it has been loaded from the database, you can modify it outside the session, and when reattaching it, Hibernate can check if the object's state conflicts with other changes made to the same data. This helps maintain data integrity and consistency in multi-user environments.

Overall, the detached state provides flexibility in working with Hibernate-managed objects. It allows you to work with objects outside the scope of an active session, persist changes made to objects even after the session is closed, and facilitates data transfer and serialisation 
























